README.md, before:

Housing price estimator: Project overview
--
- Created a tool to estimate the price of a home in Firenze, Italy based on data from October 2020.
- Scraped over 9000 house listings from Immobiliari using Python.
- Built a data cleaning pipeline and extracted features such as district, total number of rooms, heating, and energy class.
- Performed EDA to better understand the data and the influence of each of the features on price.
- Built a pre-processing pipeline including various regression models to select the best model.
- Deployed the model using streamlit: [Housing price estimator](https://share.streamlit.io/lazyeval/housing-prices-firenze/src/deployment/deploy_model.py).
- TODO: implement testing.
- TODO: containerization with docker.

Code and resources
--
**Python version**: 3.8  
**Packages**: python-dotenv, requests, setuptools, beautifulsoup4, lxml, numpy, pandas, scikit-learn, matplotlib, seaborn, scipy  
**Requirements**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

Web scraping
--
Scraped 9000 house listings on immobiliari.it and got the following data:
- Price
- Square meters
- District
- Type of property
- Category
- State of the house
- Heating
- Energy class
- Number of rooms
- Floors
- Other features

Data cleaning
--
After scraping the data from the web, I created a data cleaning pipeline where I did the following:
- Dropped uninformative columns such as the listings ID or the type of contract
- Dropped rows corresponding to homes that are not located in Firenze
- Manually imputed missing districts
- Drop rows with missing values in price and square meters
- Extracted price, square meters, state of the house
- Feature engineered price/m<sup>2</sup>, heating, energy class, elevator, disabled access, floor, parking, number of bathrooms, number of rooms, other features (created a new column for each)

Exploratory data analysis
--
I looked at the distributions, boxplots and scatter plots of the data to get a better understanding of what I was working with. Below are some highlights from this analysis:

<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/barchart.png" width="700">
<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/scatter.png" width="800">
<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/corr_plot.png" width="600">

Model building
--
I created a few pre-processing pipelines for various models, including different transformations or imputations on the data. The data was split into training and test (20 %) sets so as to avoid data leakage and cross-validation on the pipelines was used to evaluate the model performance on unseen data and for tuning. Model selection was based on the performance on cross-validation and the test set was only used to evaluate the performance of the final model.

The chosen metric is the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) as it is found to be more robust to outliers which seem to be abbundantly present in the dataset.

The following models were tried:
- **Multiple linear regression** — baseline model.
- **Support vector regressor** — the relationship between the predictors and the target variable does not seem to be strictly linear, so I chose a non-linear SVR which yielded better results.
- **Ensemble models** — I tried a series of more complex models to see how they would fit the data and generalize. As expected these models would tend to overfit the data.

Model performance
--
The figure below compares the performance of the various algorithms that were tried during modeling:
<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/algo_comparison.png" width="700">

It is clear that the SVR model performed best and I therefore chose to select that model and tune it to create the final estimator. The figure below plots the predictions of the final estimator both on the training and on the test set:
<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/pred_plots.png" width="1200">

The RMSE of the final model used on the test set is 0.18.

Project organization
--
The project organization, **based on drivendata's data science cookiecutter template**, is as follows:

    ├── LICENSE
    ├── Makefile           <- Makefile with commands like `make data` or `make train`
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project.
    ├── data
    │   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources.
    │   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed.
    │   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets for modeling.
    │   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump.
    │
    ├── docs               <- A default Sphinx project; see sphinx-doc.org for details
    │
    ├── models             <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
    │
    ├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering),
    │                         the creator's initials, and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
    │                         `1.0-jqp-initial-data-exploration`.
    │
    ├── references         <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials.
    │
    ├── reports            <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc.
    │   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
    │
    ├── requirements.txt   <- The requirements file for reproducing the analysis environment, e.g.
    │                         generated with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`
    │
    ├── setup.py           <- makes project pip installable (pip install -e .) so src can be imported
    ├── src                <- Source code for use in this project.
    │   ├── __init__.py    <- Makes src a Python module
    │   │
    │   ├── data           <- Scripts to download or generate data
    │   │   └── make_dataset.py
    │   │
    │   ├── features       <- Scripts to turn raw data into features for modeling
    │   │   └── build_features.py
    │   │
    │   ├── models         <- Scripts to train models and then use trained models to make
    │   │   │                 predictions
    │   │   ├── predict_model.py
    │   │   └── train_model.py
    │   │
    │   └── visualization  <- Scripts to create exploratory and results oriented visualizations
    │       └── visualize.py
    │
    └── tox.ini            <- tox file with settings for running tox; see tox.readthedocs.io


--------

<p><small>Project based on the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>

Commit message:

Update model performance and add deployment.

README.md, after:

Housing price estimator: Project overview
--
- Created a tool to estimate the price of a home in Firenze, Italy based on data from October 2020.
- Scraped over 9000 house listings from Immobiliari using Python.
- Built a data cleaning pipeline and extracted features such as district, total number of rooms, heating, and energy class.
- Performed EDA to better understand the data and the influence of each of the features on price.
- Built a pre-processing pipeline including various regression models to select the best model.
- Deployed the model using streamlit: [Housing price estimator](https://share.streamlit.io/lazyeval/housing-prices-firenze/src/deployment/deploy_model.py).
- TODO: implement testing.
- TODO: containerization with docker.

Code and resources
--
**Python version**: 3.8  
**Packages**: python-dotenv, requests, setuptools, beautifulsoup4, lxml, numpy, pandas, scikit-learn, matplotlib, seaborn, scipy  
**Requirements**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

Web scraping
--
Scraped 9000 house listings on immobiliari.it and got the following data:
- Price
- Square meters
- District
- Type of property
- Category
- State of the house
- Heating
- Energy class
- Number of rooms
- Floors
- Other features

Data cleaning
--
After scraping the data from the web, I created a data cleaning pipeline where I did the following:
- Dropped uninformative columns such as the listings ID or the type of contract
- Dropped rows corresponding to homes that are not located in Firenze
- Manually imputed missing districts
- Drop rows with missing values in price and square meters
- Extracted price, square meters, state of the house
- Feature engineered price/m<sup>2</sup>, heating, energy class, elevator, disabled access, floor, parking, number of bathrooms, number of rooms, other features (created a new column for each)

Exploratory data analysis
--
I looked at the distributions, boxplots and scatter plots of the data to get a better understanding of what I was working with. Below are some highlights from this analysis:

<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/barchart.png" width="700">
<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/scatter.png" width="800">
<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/corr_plot.png" width="600">

Model building
--
I created a few pre-processing pipelines for various models, including different transformations or imputations on the data. The data was split into training and test (20 %) sets so as to avoid data leakage and cross-validation on the pipelines was used to evaluate the model performance on unseen data and for tuning. Model selection was based on the performance on cross-validation and the test set was only used to evaluate the performance of the final model.

The chosen metric is the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) as it is found to be more robust to outliers which seem to be abbundantly present in the dataset.

The following models were tried:
- **Multiple linear regression** — baseline model.
- **Support vector regressor** — the relationship between the predictors and the target variable does not seem to be strictly linear, so I chose a non-linear SVR which yielded better results.
- **Ensemble models** — I tried a series of more complex models to see how they would fit the data and generalize. As expected these models would tend to overfit the data.

Model performance
--
The figure below compares the performance of the various algorithms that were tried during modeling **using cross validation**:

<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/algo_comparison.png" width="700">

It is clear that the SVR model performed best and I therefore chose to select that model and tune it to create the final estimator. The figure below plots the predictions of the final estimator both on the training and on the test set:
<img src="https://github.com/LazyEval/housing-prices-firenze/blob/master/reports/figures/pred_plots.png" width="1200">

The RMSE of the final model used on the test set is 0.18.

Deployment
--
The model was deployed using the streamlit library. The script that is run by streamlit was integrated into the project workflow so that predictions are made instantly. The API endpoint takes in a request with a set of values (that correspond to features of the house) inserted by the user and returns an estimated price.

Project organization
--
The project organization, **based on drivendata's data science cookiecutter template**, is as follows:

    ├── LICENSE
    ├── Makefile           <- Makefile with commands like `make data` or `make train`
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project.
    ├── data
    │   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources.
    │   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed.
    │   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets for modeling.
    │   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump.
    │
    ├── docs               <- A default Sphinx project; see sphinx-doc.org for details
    │
    ├── models             <- Trained and serialized models, model predictions, or model summaries
    │
    ├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering),
    │                         the creator's initials, and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
    │                         `1.0-jqp-initial-data-exploration`.
    │
    ├── references         <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials.
    │
    ├── reports            <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc.
    │   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
    │
    ├── requirements.txt   <- The requirements file for reproducing the analysis environment, e.g.
    │                         generated with `pip freeze > requirements.txt`
    │
    ├── setup.py           <- makes project pip installable (pip install -e .) so src can be imported
    ├── src                <- Source code for use in this project.
    │   ├── __init__.py    <- Makes src a Python module
    │   │
    │   ├── data           <- Scripts to download or generate data
    │   │   └── make_dataset.py
    │   │
    │   ├── features       <- Scripts to turn raw data into features for modeling
    │   │   └── build_features.py
    │   │
    │   ├── models         <- Scripts to train models and then use trained models to make
    │   │   │                 predictions
    │   │   ├── predict_model.py
    │   │   └── train_model.py
    │   │
    │   └── visualization  <- Scripts to create exploratory and results oriented visualizations
    │       └── visualize.py
    │
    └── tox.ini            <- tox file with settings for running tox; see tox.readthedocs.io


--------

<p><small>Project based on the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>
